README.md, before:

# KitsuneResource

A Python-based pipeline for compiling and packaging Source Engine resources (models, materials, textures, scripts). Designed for games like **Left 4 Dead 2** and **Garry's Mod**, this tool automates compilation, material processing, texture conversion, and optional VPK packaging.

<img width="1493" height="808" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d40186b4-e47b-416c-b43e-e8c6f49a10a8" />

## Compatibility

Windows 10+ & Python 3.10+

## Features

### Model Compilation (ValveModel Pipeline)
- Compile main QC and sub-QC files using StudioMDL
- Support for multiple models per configuration
- Automatic material discovery from QC files (`$cdmaterials`, `$texturegroup`, `$renamematerial`)
- Material copying with optional localization
- Patch shader support (VMT `include`, `replace`, `insert` blocks)
- Direct game compilation mode (`--game`)

### Material Management
- Automatic material and texture copying
- Material path localization for self-contained packages
- Shared material folder support

### Texture Processing (ValveTexture Pipeline)
- Batch VTF conversion using VTFCmd
- Pattern matching with regex support
- Incremental updates (skip already-converted textures)
- Recursive directory processing
- Automatic VMT generation from templates
- Customizable VTF flags and encoder settings

### Data Handling
- Copy scripts, configs, and other files
- String replacement in text files (`.txt`, `.lua`, `.nut`, etc.)
- Image format conversion
- VTF export with customizable parameters

### VPK Packaging
- Optional VPK packaging for compiled folders
- Silent operation unless verbose logging is enabled

### Logging & Output
- Detailed timestamped logs with colored prefixes (MODEL, MATERIAL, DATA, VPK)
- Optional file logging
- Verbose mode for debugging
- Total elapsed time reporting

## Installation

1. **Prerequisites:**
   - Python 3.10+
   - `studiomdl.exe` (from Source SDK or any Source game's `bin/` folder)
   - `vtfcmd.exe` ([VTFLib](https://github.com/NeilJed/VTFLib))
   - `vpk.exe` (from any Source game's `bin/` folder)

2. **Clone and Install:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/KitsuneResource.git
cd KitsuneResource
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Basic Command
```cmd
python resourcecompiler.py --config path/to/config.json [options]
```

### Sample Configurations
```
Refer to sample_json/ directory for example configurations
```

## Command-Line Arguments

### Global Options
| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `--config` | **(Required)** Path to JSON configuration file |
| `--dir` | Override input/output root directory |
| `--log` | Enable logging to timestamped file in `resourcecompiler-log/` |
| `--verbose` | Enable verbose output for debugging |

### ValveModel Pipeline Options
| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `--exportdir` | Root folder for compiled output (default: `ExportedResource`) |
| `--nomaterial` | Skip material mapping and copying |
| `--nolocalize` | Keep original folder structure for materials |
| `--sharedmaterials` | Copy materials to `compile/Assetshared` folder |
| `--vpk` | Package each compiled subfolder into VPK |
| `--archive` | Archive existing compile folder instead of deletion |
| `--game` | Compile directly to game directory (skips materials/data/VPK) |

### ValveTexture Pipeline Options
| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `--forceupdate` | Force reprocessing all textures |
| `--allow_reprocess` | Allow same file to be processed multiple times |
| `--recursive` | Search for files recursively in subfolders |

## Configuration Examples

### ValveModel Pipeline
```json
{
  "header": "ValveModel",
  "studiomdl": "C:/Steam/steamapps/common/Team Fortress 2/bin/studiomdl.exe",
  "gameinfo": "C:/Steam/steamapps/common/Team Fortress 2/tf/gameinfo.txt",
  "vtfcmd": "C:/Tools/VTFCmd.exe",
  "vpk": "C:/Steam/steamapps/common/Team Fortress 2/bin/vpk.exe",
  
  "model": {
    "MyModel": {
      "qc": "models/mymodel/mymodel.qc",
      "compile": true,
      "submodels": {
        "phymodel": "models/mymodel/phymodel.qc"
      },
      "subdata": [
        {
          "input": "textures/custom.tga",
          "output": "materials/models/mymodel/custom.vtf",
          "vtf": {
            "flags": ["NOMIP"],
            "vmt": "templates/basic.vmt"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  
  "material": {
    "SharedTextures": {
      "materials": [
        "models/shared/metal01",
        "models/shared/concrete"
      ]
    }
  },
  
  "data": {
    "scripts": [
      {
        "input": "scripts/game_sounds.txt",
        "output": "scripts/game_sounds_custom.txt",
        "replace": {
          "OLD_PATH": "NEW_PATH"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### ValveTexture Pipeline
```json
{
  "header": "ValveTexture",
  "vtfcmd": "C:/Tools/VTFCmd.exe",
  
  "vtf": {
    "skybox_textures": {
      "input": "skybox_.*\\.tga",
      "output": "materials/skybox/",
      "vtf": {
        "flags": ["NOMIP", "NOLOD"],
        "encoder_args": ["-format", "DXT1"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Configuration Includes
Split configurations across multiple files:
```json
{
  "header": "ValveModel",
  "include": ["common_settings.json", "tool_paths.json"],
  "model": { ... }
}
```

## How It Works

### Model Compilation Flow
1. Parse JSON configuration and validate tool paths
2. Extract game search paths from `gameinfo.txt`
3. Compile QC files using `studiomdl.exe`
4. Parse QC for materials (`$cdmaterials`, `$texturegroup`, `$renamematerial`)
5. Locate VMT/VTF files in game search paths
6. Copy materials and textures to output folder
7. Optionally localize VMT paths for self-contained packages
8. Process additional data files
9. Package into VPK archives if requested

### Material Localization
When enabled, VMT files are rewritten to use relative paths:
```vmt
Before: $basetexture "models/weapons/shared/texture"
After:  $basetexture "shared/texture"
```

### QC Material
- Materials dumped by `studiomdl.exe` during compilation
- `$cdmaterials` search paths
- `$texturegroup skinfamilies` alternate skins
- `$renamematerial` mappings
- `$include` files (recursive)

## Acknowledgments

- Valve Software for Source Engine and SDK tools
- VTFLib developers for texture conversion tools
- Source modding community

Commit message:

Renamed primary python file to main.py Renamed compiler folder to core Removed [INFO] word in the console output Cleaned up display_help() output Removed the requirement of gameinfo on the json, but will not process the model materials Updated sample json to my own config Initial testing on Linux with Wine to run the SDK executables
Bumped version number

README.md, after:

# KitsuneResource

A Python-based pipeline for compiling and packaging Source Engine resources (models, materials, textures, scripts). Designed for games like **Left 4 Dead 2** and **Garry's Mod**, this tool automates compilation, material processing, texture conversion, and optional VPK packaging.

<img width="1493" height="808" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d40186b4-e47b-416c-b43e-e8c6f49a10a8" />

## Compatibility

Windows 10+ or Linux with Wine 9.0 for the executables & Python 3.10+

## Features

### Model Compilation (ValveModel Pipeline)
- Compile main QC and sub-QC files using StudioMDL
- Support for multiple models per configuration
- Automatic material discovery from QC files (`$cdmaterials`, `$texturegroup`, `$renamematerial`)
- Material copying with optional localization
- Patch shader support (VMT `include`, `replace`, `insert` blocks)
- Direct game compilation mode (`--game`)

### Material Management
- Automatic material and texture copying
- Material path localization for self-contained packages
- Shared material folder support

### Texture Processing (ValveTexture Pipeline)
- Batch VTF conversion using VTFCmd
- Pattern matching with regex support
- Incremental updates (skip already-converted textures)
- Recursive directory processing
- Automatic VMT generation from templates
- Customizable VTF flags and encoder settings

### Data Handling
- Copy scripts, configs, and other files
- String replacement in text files (`.txt`, `.lua`, `.nut`, etc.)
- Image format conversion
- VTF export with customizable parameters

### VPK Packaging
- Optional VPK packaging for compiled folders
- Silent operation unless verbose logging is enabled

### Logging & Output
- Detailed timestamped logs with colored prefixes (MODEL, MATERIAL, DATA, VPK)
- Optional file logging
- Verbose mode for debugging
- Total elapsed time reporting

## Installation

1. **Prerequisites:**
   - Python 3.10+
   - `studiomdl.exe` (from Source SDK or any Source game's `bin/` folder)
   - `vtfcmd.exe` ([VTFLib](https://github.com/NeilJed/VTFLib))
   - `vpk.exe` (from any Source game's `bin/` folder)

2. **Clone and Install:**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/KitsuneResource.git
cd KitsuneResource
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Basic Command
```cmd
python resourcecompiler.py --config path/to/config.json [options]
```

### Sample Configurations
```
Refer to sample_json/ directory for example configurations
```

## Command-Line Arguments

### Global Options
| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `--config` | **(Required)** Path to JSON configuration file |
| `--dir` | Override input/output root directory |
| `--log` | Enable logging to timestamped file in `resourcecompiler-log/` |
| `--verbose` | Enable verbose output for debugging |

### ValveModel Pipeline Options
| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `--exportdir` | Root folder for compiled output (default: `ExportedResource`) |
| `--nomaterial` | Skip material mapping and copying |
| `--nolocalize` | Keep original folder structure for materials |
| `--sharedmaterials` | Copy materials to `compile/Assetshared` folder |
| `--vpk` | Package each compiled subfolder into VPK |
| `--archive` | Archive existing compile folder instead of deletion |
| `--game` | Compile directly to game directory (skips materials/data/VPK) |

### ValveTexture Pipeline Options
| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `--forceupdate` | Force reprocessing all textures |
| `--allow_reprocess` | Allow same file to be processed multiple times |
| `--recursive` | Search for files recursively in subfolders |

## Configuration Examples

### ValveModel Pipeline
```json
{
  "header": "ValveModel",
  "studiomdl": "C:/Steam/steamapps/common/Team Fortress 2/bin/studiomdl.exe",
  "gameinfo": "C:/Steam/steamapps/common/Team Fortress 2/tf/gameinfo.txt",
  "vtfcmd": "C:/Tools/VTFCmd.exe",
  "vpk": "C:/Steam/steamapps/common/Team Fortress 2/bin/vpk.exe",
  
  "model": {
    "MyModel": {
      "qc": "models/mymodel/mymodel.qc",
      "compile": true,
      "submodels": {
        "phymodel": "models/mymodel/phymodel.qc"
      },
      "subdata": [
        {
          "input": "textures/custom.tga",
          "output": "materials/models/mymodel/custom.vtf",
          "vtf": {
            "flags": ["NOMIP"],
            "vmt": "templates/basic.vmt"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  
  "material": {
    "SharedTextures": {
      "materials": [
        "models/shared/metal01",
        "models/shared/concrete"
      ]
    }
  },
  
  "data": {
    "scripts": [
      {
        "input": "scripts/game_sounds.txt",
        "output": "scripts/game_sounds_custom.txt",
        "replace": {
          "OLD_PATH": "NEW_PATH"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### ValveTexture Pipeline
```json
{
  "header": "ValveTexture",
  "vtfcmd": "C:/Tools/VTFCmd.exe",
  
  "vtf": {
    "skybox_textures": {
      "input": "skybox_.*\\.tga",
      "output": "materials/skybox/",
      "vtf": {
        "flags": ["NOMIP", "NOLOD"],
        "encoder_args": ["-format", "DXT1"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Configuration Includes
Split configurations across multiple files:
```json
{
  "header": "ValveModel",
  "include": ["common_settings.json", "tool_paths.json"],
  "model": { ... }
}
```

## How It Works

### Model Compilation Flow
1. Parse JSON configuration and validate tool paths
2. Extract game search paths from `gameinfo.txt`
3. Compile QC files using `studiomdl.exe`
4. Parse QC for materials (`$cdmaterials`, `$texturegroup`, `$renamematerial`)
5. Locate VMT/VTF files in game search paths
6. Copy materials and textures to output folder
7. Optionally localize VMT paths for self-contained packages
8. Process additional data files
9. Package into VPK archives if requested

### Material Localization
When enabled, VMT files are rewritten to use relative paths:
```vmt
Before: $basetexture "models/weapons/shared/texture"
After:  $basetexture "shared/texture"
```

### QC Material
- Materials dumped by `studiomdl.exe` during compilation
- `$cdmaterials` search paths
- `$texturegroup skinfamilies` alternate skins
- `$renamematerial` mappings
- `$include` files (recursive)

## Acknowledgments

- Valve Software for Source Engine and SDK tools
- VTFLib developers for texture conversion tools
- Source modding community
